=head1 Overview of Maypole Documentation

The Maypole documentation is arranged over several files; this is a good
one to start with.

Once you've read this, you should probably look at L<About.pod>, the
guide to what Maypole is and how the Maypole request works. It also
describes how to set up a simple CRUD web application in Maypole.

The next two chapters are quite thorough, and you might want to skip
over them if you already know how L<Class::DBI> and the L<Template>
toolkit work. L<Model.pod> and L<View.pod> describe these technologies
and their relationship to Maypole.

Now we present the default actions and templates - the F<factory>
templates - in L<StandardTemplates.pod>. When you have read these
chapters, you are ready to start building more complex applications in
Maypole than just a simple CRUD interface. L<Beer.pod> reintroduces the
beer database application and shows how to move from the "magic" of the
automatically supplied templates and actions to a customized application
with user-specified actions.

L<Request.pod> contains more information about the Maypole request
object and provides some cookbook-style techniques: how to provide
authentication, how to provide a REST interface, how to override various
stages of the content generation process, and so on.

The final chapters are examples of how to construct large web
applications in Maypole: L<Flox.pod> describes a "social network" site
similar to Friendster and Orkut; L<PetStore.pod> implements the Java/C#
benchmark Pet Store application; and L<BuySpy.pod> implements the
ASP.NET sample portal application.
